README.md, before:

# Next classnames minifier

Library for configuring style _(css/scss/sass)_ modules to generate compressed classes (`.header` -> `.a`, `.nav` -> `.b`, ..., `.footer` -> `.aad`, etc.)

## Reasons
*Compressing classes* can reduce the size of the generated html and css by up to *20%*, which will have a positive effect on page rendering and metrics (primarily [FCP](https://web.dev/first-contentful-paint/))

## Installation

**Using npm:**
```bash
npm i next-classnames-minifier
```

**Using yarn:**
```bash
yarn add next-classnames-minifier
```

## Usage

Create `next.config.js` file in your project and apply the library.

**Base:**
```js
const withClassnamesMinifier = require('next-classnames-minifier').default;

module.exports = withClassnamesMinifier()({
    // next.js config
});
```

**With `next-compose-plugins`:**
```js
const withClassnamesMinifier = require('next-classnames-minifier').default;
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins');

module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier()]
], nextConfig);
```

## Configuration
next-classname-minifier has 3 types of changing classnames:

* minified — the main option. It is highly not recommended to use this option for development mode (_it is too unstable in dev mode by next.js reasons_);
* custom — create a class using a [template string](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/output/#template-strings) rule, can be used for debugging;
* none — use the default CSS modules option, default for development mode;

You can choose different options for development and production. 

Configuration example:
```js
module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier({ dev: 'none', prod: 'minified' })]
], nextConfig);
```

Custom mode example:
```js
module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier({ dev: { type: 'custom', templateString: '[path][name]__[local]_[hash:base64:5]' }, prod: 'minified' })]
], nextConfig);
```

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vordgi/next-classnames-minifier/blob/main/LICENSE)

Commit message:

ncm-19 Add Troubleshoot section to readme

README.md, after:

# Next classnames minifier

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/next-classnames-minifier.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/next-classnames-minifier)

Library for configuring style _(css/scss/sass)_ modules to generate compressed classes (`.header` -> `.a`, `.nav` -> `.b`, ..., `.footer` -> `.aad`, etc.)

## Reasons
*Compressing classes* can reduce the size of the generated html and css by up to *20%*, which will have a positive effect on page rendering and metrics (primarily [FCP](https://web.dev/first-contentful-paint/))

## Installation

**Using npm:**
```bash
npm i next-classnames-minifier
```

**Using yarn:**
```bash
yarn add next-classnames-minifier
```

## Usage

Create `next.config.js` file in your project and apply the library.

**Base:**
```js
const withClassnamesMinifier = require('next-classnames-minifier').default;

module.exports = withClassnamesMinifier()({
    // next.js config
});
```

**With `next-compose-plugins`:**
```js
const withClassnamesMinifier = require('next-classnames-minifier').default;
const withPlugins = require('next-compose-plugins');

module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier()]
], nextConfig);
```

## Configuration
next-classname-minifier has 3 types of changing classnames:

* minified — the main option. It is highly not recommended to use this option for development mode (_it is too unstable in dev mode by next.js reasons_);
* custom — create a class using a [template string](https://webpack.js.org/configuration/output/#template-strings) rule, can be used for debugging;
* none — use the default CSS modules option, default for development mode;

You can choose different options for development and production. 

Configuration example:
```js
module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier({ dev: 'none', prod: 'minified' })]
], nextConfig);
```

Custom mode example:
```js
module.exports = withPlugins([
    [withClassnamesMinifier({ dev: { type: 'custom', templateString: '[path][name]__[local]_[hash:base64:5]' }, prod: 'minified' })]
], nextConfig);
```

## Troubleshoot

The main problem is the next.js caching system. It may create the "Home" page first and cache it with classes `.a`, `.b`, `.c`, etc.

Next time Next.js will create the "About" page first and those classes will be created for that page, but "Home" page with the same classes will be read from the page.

The best way to fix this is to not reuse the next.js cache (_don't cache `.next` folder_). Instructions for Vercel can be found at [vercel doc page](https://vercel.com/docs/deployments/troubleshoot-a-build#managing-build-cache).

## License

[MIT](https://github.com/vordgi/next-classnames-minifier/blob/main/LICENSE)
